UCLA geochemists have found evidence that life likely existed on Earth at least 4.1 billion years ago — 300 million years earlier than previous research suggested. The discovery indicates that life may have begun shortly after the planet formed 4.54 billion years ago. The research is published today in the online early edition of the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. “Twenty years ago, this would have been heretical; finding evidence of life 3.8 billion years ago was shocking,” said Mark Harrison, co-author of the research and a professor of geochemistry at UCLA. Reed Hutchinson. Mark Harrison at UCLA. “Life on Earth may have started almost instantaneously,” added Harrison, a member of the National Academy of Sciences. “With the right ingredients, life seems to form very quickly.” The new research suggests that life existed prior to the massive bombardment of the inner solar system that formed the moon’s large craters 3.9 billion years ago. “If all life on Earth died during this bombardment, which some scientists have argued, then life must have restarted quickly,” said Patrick Boehnke, a co-author of the research and a graduate student in Harrison’s laboratory. Scientists had long believed the Earth was dry and desolate during that time period. Harrison’s research — including a 2008 study in Nature he co-authored with Craig Manning, a professor of geology and geochemistry at UCLA, and former UCLA graduate student Michelle Hopkins — is proving otherwise. “The early Earth certainly wasn’t a hellish, dry, boiling planet; we see absolutely no evidence for that,” Harrison said. “The planet was probably much more like it is today than previously thought.” The researchers, led by Elizabeth Bell — a postdoctoral scholar in Harrison’s laboratory — studied more than 10,000 zircons originally formed from molten rocks, or magmas, from Western Australia. Zircons are heavy, durable minerals related to the synthetic cubic zirconium used for imitation diamonds. They capture and preserve their immediate environment, meaning they can serve as time capsules. The scientists identified 656 zircons containing dark specks that could be revealing and closely analyzed 79 of them with Raman spectroscopy, a technique that shows the molecular and chemical structure of ancient microorganisms in three dimensions. Bell and Boehnke, who have pioneered chemical and mineralogical tests to determine the condition of ancient zircons, were searching for carbon, the key component for life. One of the 79 zircons contained graphite — pure carbon — in two locations. “The first time that the graphite ever got exposed in the last 4.1 billion years is when Beth Ann and Patrick made the measurements this year,” Harrison said. How confident are they that their zircon represents 4.1 billion-year-old graphite? “Very confident,” Harrison said. “There is no better case of a primary inclusion in a mineral ever documented, and nobody has offered a plausible alternative explanation for graphite of non-biological origin into a zircon.” The graphite is older than the zircon containing it, the researchers said. They know the zircon is 4.1 billion years old, based on its ratio of uranium to lead; they don’t know how much older the graphite is. The research suggests life in the universe could be abundant, Harrison said. On Earth, simple life appears to have formed quickly, but it likely took many millions of years for very simple life to evolve the ability to photosynthesize. The carbon contained in the zircon has a characteristic signature — a specific ratio of carbon-12 to carbon-13 — that indicates the presence of photosynthetic life.  “We need to think differently about the early Earth,” Bell said. Wendy Mao, an associate professor of geological sciences and photon science at Stanford University, is the other co-author of the research. The research was funded by the National Science Foundation and a Simons Collaboration on the Origin of Life Postdoctoral Fellowship granted to Bell. 

Mario is a fictional character in the Mario video game franchise, created by Nintendo's Japanese video game designer, Shigeru Miyamoto. Serving as the company's mascot and the eponymous protagonist of the series, Mario has appeared in over 200 video games since his creation. Depicted as a short, pudgy, Italian plumber who resides in the Mushroom Kingdom, his adventures generally center upon rescuing Princess Peach from the Koopa villain Bowser. His younger brother is Luigi. The Mario franchise is the best-selling video game franchise of all time. Over 210 million units of the overall Mario series of games have been sold. Outside of the Super Mario platform series, other Mario genres include the Mario Kart racing series, sports games such as the Mario Tennis and Mario Golf series, role-playing games such as Super Mario RPG and Paper Mario, and educational games such as Mario Is Missing! and Mario's Time Machine. The franchise has branched into several mediums, including television shows, film, comics and licensed merchandise. Since 1995, Mario has been voiced by Charles Martinet. Mario was originally portrayed as a two-dimensional sprite, but in later games, he is shown as a three-dimensional, polygonal model. He is depicted as a portly plumber who lives in the fictional land of the Mushroom Kingdom with Luigi, his younger, taller brother. In the television series and film, Mario and Luigi are originally from Brooklyn, New York. Little is known of Mario's childhood, though the infant version of Mario, Baby Mario, first appeared in 1995 in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, and has often appeared in Nintendo sports games since that time. Baby Mario has a major role along with Baby Luigi in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time and appears in Yoshi's Island DS. He (along with the adult Mario) is voiced by Charles Martinet. Mario's occupation is plumbing, though in the original Donkey Kong games he is a carpenter. Mario has had several other occupations: in the Dr. Mario series of puzzle games, which debuted in 1990, Mario is portrayed as a medical physician named "Dr. Mario"; in the Game Boy game Mario's Picross, Mario is an archaeologist; and in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, Mario is the president of a profitable toy-making company. Mario is also an athlete in various Mario sports titles including Mario Sports Mix, Mario Strikers Charged, and Mario Golf: World Tour; as well as a kart racer in the Mario Kart series. Mario usually saves Princess Peach and the Mushroom Kingdom and purges antagonists, such as Bowser, from various areas. Mario has gained fame in the Mushroom Kingdom due to his heroic deeds, as shown in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, where the brothers are referred to as "superstars". Since his first game, Mario has usually had the role of saving the damsel in distress. Originally, he had to rescue his girlfriend Pauline in Donkey Kong from Donkey Kong. Pauline was soon replaced by a new damsel in distress, Princess Peach, in Super Mario Bros., but returned in the Game Boy remake of Donkey Kong in 1994, and in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis in 2006, although the character is now described as "Mario's friend". Mario has rescued Princess Peach multiple times since Super Mario Bros. In a role reversal, Peach rescues Mario in Super Princess Peach. Mario rescued Princess Daisy of Sarasaraland in Super Mario Land, but Luigi seems to be more linked to her. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, the text explaining Daisy's trophy states that "after her appearance in Mario Golf, gossips portrayed her as Luigi's answer to Mario's Peach". Luigi is Mario's younger brother. He is a companion in the Mario games, and the character whom the second player controls in two-player sessions of many of the video games, though he occasionally rescues Mario, as seen in Mario is Missing! and Luigi's Mansion. Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins for the Game Boy saw the arrival of Wario, Mario's greedy counterpart, who is often Mario's antagonist or an antihero. Yoshi is a dinosaur whose species is also named Yoshi. They vary in color, but the original Yoshi is green. Yoshi serves as Mario's mount in games such as Super Mario World, and is depicted as an independent characters in games like Super Mario Kart and Yoshi's Island. During the development of Donkey Kong, Mario was known as Jumpman. Jumping—both to access places and as an offensive move—is a common gameplay element in Mario games, especially the Super Mario series. By the time Super Mario RPG was released, jumping became such a signature act of Mario that the player was often tasked with jumping to prove to NPCs that he was Mario. Mario's most commonly portrayed form of attack is jumping to stomp on the heads of enemies, first used in Super Mario Bros. This jump-stomp move may entirely crush smaller enemies on the stage, and usually deals damage to larger ones, sometimes causing secondary effects. This attack often enables Mario to knock the turtle-like Koopa Troopas into or out of their shells, which can be used as weapons. Subsequent games have elaborated on Mario's jumping-related abilities. Super Mario World added the ability to spin-jump, which allows Mario to break blocks beneath him. The Game Boy version of Donkey Kong allowed Mario to jump higher with consecutive jumps, and perform a back-flip. In Super Mario 64, Mario gains new jumping abilities such as these: a sideways somersault; a ground pound, which is a high-impact downward thrusting motion; and the "Wall Kick", which propels him upwards by kicking off walls. Mario seen wearing the Tanooki Suit. The suit is derived from the Japanese raccoon dog, tanuki Mario uses items, which give him various powers, and differ between the games he is in. The first power-up Mario ever used was the Hammer in Donkey Kong. Super Mario Bros. introduced the basic three power-ups that have become staples for the series, especially the 2D games — the Super Mushroom, which causes Mario to grow larger; the Fire Flower, which allows Mario to throw fireballs; and the Starman, which gives Mario temporary invincibility. These powers have appeared regularly throughout the series. Throughout the series' history, there have been several kinds of Mushroom power-ups, including the 1-Up Mushroom, which gives Mario an extra life; the Poison Mushroom, which causes Mario to either shrink or die; the Mega Mushroom, which causes Mario to grow very large; and the Mini Mushroom, which causes Mario to shrink. A reoccurring power-up throughout the series is an item that gives Mario the ability of flight. The first of this type was introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3: one power-up, which gives Mario a raccoon suit, is called the Super Leaf, while another is called the Tanooki Suit (a transliteration of Tanuki) and grants Mario the ability to fly or turn into a statue. In Super Mario World, an item called the Cape Feather was introduced that gave Mario a cape. In Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, a carrot was available that gave Mario rabbit ears that allowed him to fly, and in Super Mario 64, Mario could acquire an item called the Wing Cap, which temporarily gave him the ability of flight. Super Mario Sunshine introduces a pump-water spraying device named "F.L.U.D.D.", which abilities included spraying water and hovering. Super Mario Galaxy introduced new power-ups, including the Bee Mushroom, which turned Mario into a bee and allowed him to fly temporarily; the Boo Mushroom, which turned Mario into a ghost, allowing him to float and pass through walls; the Spring Mushroom, which encased Mario in a spring, allowing him to jump higher; and the Ice Flower, which allowed the player to temporarily walk on water and lava without sinking or taking damage. Super Mario Galaxy 2 introduced even more power ups alongside those introduced in Super Mario Galaxy, including the Cloud Flower which allows Mario to create platforms in midair and Rock Mario, which transforms Mario into a boulder that could be used to break through barriers. New Super Mario Bros. Wii updated the Ice Flower, which then allowed Mario to shoot ice balls that temporally froze enemies; and also introduced the Propeller Mushroom, which allows him to fly; as well as the Penguin Suit, which allows Mario to easily traverse ice and swim through water in addition to shooting ice balls. Super Mario 3D Land introduced the Boomerang Flower, which allows Mario to throw boomerangs at nearby enemies; and the Statue Leaf, which allows Mario to turn to a statue. In New Super Mario Bros. U, a Super Acorn makes its debut. This transforms Mario to his new Flying Squirrel form where he can glide and stick on walls. Super Mario 3D World introduced the Super Bell, which transforms Mario into his Cat form as well as a Double Cherry to make multiple copies of himself. A Brief History Of Mario With the Release of the Limited Edition of Super Mario All-Stars, it is important to look back at the history of one of Video Games most well known figure. You will see a character who not only successfully has tried his hand at a great number of sports and driving, but has a series of wonderful games to his name. This is, of course, Mario. From his humble beginnings on the Nintendo Entertainment System, he has appeared on EVERY Nintendo Console (even the Virtual Boy), and been brought forward into the realm of 3D and out to the stars. The Beginning in the 1980's If you want to talk about Mario, you need to start with “Jump Man”. Who is that and what does he have to do with Mario? Before Mario was Mario, he appeared in the original arcade “Donkey Kong” as “Jump Man”, out to save Pauline, originally known as the Lady. This was his humble beginning before he even got a game of his own. In this game, Mario, is a carpenter with a pet ape, who mistreats it. The ape, Donkey Kong, then steals his girlfriend to get even. Good story huh? After that, he starred in his first game, “The Mario Bros.”, with his brother Luigi. Here is where the Mario brothers are established as Italian-American Plumbers in New York fighting Koopas beneath the city. This is also where Mario's full name of Mario Mario is established. That covers it for the very beginning of Mario's history. The Super Mario Bros. Series This is what put Mario onto the map in every regard. A three part series of games, Mario would work his way from one side of the stage to the other, dodging various enemies, pits and other hazards. The first game, more than any other was one that could eat your coins in the arcade and your free time at on the NES. It was hard. Taking each level at break neck speed, even with the warp zones was a testament to one's reflexes and skills. While most levels were very straight forward, it was the enemies, pits and other hazards that made the game. The last dungeon was perhaps the worst of all requiring you to hop through a particular section in a specific order to reach King Koopa. After that, Super Mario 2 introduced a wonderful world that was even harder in terms of difficulty but also introduced a character selection, which made it so you had to think about which character would be best for the up coming level. It turns out to be a dream, but it was still a fun game. Super Mario 3 though was what really set the bar high for many Mario games to come. With a level select and the freedom to move around from each level in no particular order (generally). It also introduced a number of different power ups that would become the norm for every Mario game after. Here we are also introduced to the Kooplings, who help Bowser in his conquest of the Mushroom Kingdom. Moving to the Super Nintendo The Super Nintendo saw a great upgrade in capability and whole new venues opened up for our plumber. Here, we are introduced to Yoshi, Mario's now faithful dinosaur companion. Again the kooplings and Bowser are causing trouble. It was one of the first console Mario games where you could revisit levels and were encouraged to do so. Yoshi took on a life of his own after this and got the sequel of Super Mario World focused around him (and his own series too). Here, the first of the Mario Rpgs was introduced, the Legend of the Seven Stars. It was a great time for Mario. It was also the first time the Super Mario All Stars compilation was released. It contained all the Mario games, graphically revamped for the Super Nintendo, from the Nintendo. This included the Japanese Super Mario Bros 2 (called the Lost Levels). In Japan, what is known in the US as Super Mario 2 is Super Mario USA. This was also when Mario really started to obviously branch out into other areas beyond just platforming. Here is where the famous “Mario Kart” series has its roots along with a number of sports games themed around Mario.Mario Goes 3D While Mario only got full adventure one game on the Nintendo 64, it was one that was quite good. Here, Mario again took the sky with his Wing cap and had various abilities thanks to different caps that he could find throughout the castle. This one took time and dedication to clear all the way, but it was usually worth it to do. For your efforts you got 100 lives and you got to meet Yoshi. While it was here we are introduced to one of the best Mario Karts, a few other games of note emerge (like Mario Tennis!) Mario saw no slacking here. After the time with the N64, the Gamecube came out. Again, Mario went 3D for Super Mario Sunshine. This was also a time when we saw a number of Mario Spin-offs happen as well. While there were a number of fun Mario games, they were not part of the main story. This well established Mario in a number of different series and really made it so you knew that Mario could make just about any game good thanks to the fun mechanics. Mario In Space! When it came time for the Wii, Mario came along too. While he eventually returned to his roots with side scrolling platforming, he did put in some good time in outer space. This proved to be a challenging, though to some, a very dizzying and disorienting game. These were great games to play and something for the fans to really enjoy. Eventually we saw the return to 2d side scrolling, but much more so in the 2.5D style, with fully rendered 3D characters running on a 2D plane. This return marked something new, a return to a style at everyone loved as well as the first platforming Mario with 4 players. Wrapping it up With Mario, to even mention all of his games would take several days to write up properly. He has been involved in so many from the start. He is Nintendo's Mascot and arguably the most recognized video game character out there. This is a series that from the start had a captive audience and one that has managed to hold that audience quite well over all the years, platforms and different series that you could get Mario into. It is because of this success that Mario is who he is today, the world's most beloved Plumber.


The nitrogen cycle is an important cycle to the atmosphere. Nitrogen is an essential part of the biological molecules such as proteins and nucleic acid, which makes nitrogen essential for all living organisms. Nitrogen makes up 78 percent of the atmosphere. There are five steps in the nitrogen cycle between the abiotic environment and the organisms: nitrogen fixation, nitrification, assimilation, ammonification, and dentrification. Nitrogen fixation is the conversion of gaseous nitrogen to ammonia. This process is carried out my nitrogen-fixing bacteria in soil and aquatic environments. These bacteria find an enzyme called nitrogenase to break up molecular nitrogen and combine it with hydrogen. Nitrogen fixing bacteria must consume the energy in 12 grams of sugar in order to fix a single gram of nitrogen biologically. The second step, nitrification is the conversion of ammonia to nitrate. This is a two step process that is accomplished by soil bacteria. The soil bacteria Nitrosomonas and Nitrococus converts ammonia to nitrate and then the soil bacterium Nitroabcter oxidizes nitrate to nitrate. In the third step assimilation, the plants absorb nitrate or ammonia that was formed in step one and two, therefore the plants now have proteins and nucleic acid. When the animals consume the plants, they are also taking in the plant nitrogen compounds and converting them to animal compounds. The fourth step is ammonification. It is the conversion if biological nitrogen compounds into ammonia. Ammonification is when organisms produce nitrogen-containing waste products, such as urine, decomposing and releasing the nitrogen into the abiotic environment as ammonia. The ammonia that was produced during the process of ammonification enters the nitrogen cycle and is then used for the process of nitrification and assimilation. The fifth and last step of the nitrogen cycle is denitrification. Denitrification is the reduction of nitrate to gaseous nitrogen. Denitrifying bacteria reverses the action of nitrogen fixing and nitrifying bacteria by returning nitrogen to the atmosphere as nitrogen gas. I think that the nitrogen cycle is the most important cycle of the ecosystem because it effects the atmosphere and every organism on this earth. The nitrogen cycle is needed to produce nitrogen and ammonia. Nitrogen is crucial for all organisms because it is an essential part of biological molecules such as proteins and nucleic acid. Nitrogen is important to humans because we get protein from the plants that incorporate the nitrogen. Also we use nitrogen as a fertilizer which makes it a big part of our agricultural lives. My conclusion is that the nitrogen cycle is the most important because without it a lot of organisms including humans would not be able to survive.

Sir Nigel Archirbald Thornberry is the host of "Nigel Thornberry's Wild World". Nigel has devoted his entire life to studying all kinds of wild animals and their habitats. His dry wit and hearty laugh are almost as noticeable as his bright red hair and bushy moustache. Besides narrating the show, Nigel is an experienced pilot and wood grower, and has often risked life and limb to save his family from extremely perilous situations they find themselves in on their travels. Nigel has recently been knighted by the Queen of England, but even this honor won't quench the need for adventure in his blood as he continues his journeys to the far corners of the globe in search of one elusive species after another. Altough Nigel considered taking a professorship at Oxford in order to allow his children to have "normal" lives, and to have human friends in Eliza's case. Nigel has red hair and a red moustache. He often wears a khaki shirt and green shorts. Nigel appears in every episode of The Wild Thornberrys. His first appearance was in Pilot. His last appearance was in Eliza Unplugged. Nigel has a supporting role in The Wild Thornberrys Movie, he had a bigger role in the Rugrats Go Wild! film. 

The Wild Thornberrys is an American animated television series that aired on Nickelodeon.[1] It was rerun in the United States on Nickelodeon and occasionally Nicktoons until July 27, 2007. The show returned to The '90s Are All That for one night, and aired on March 21, 2013. The show aired on Nicktoonsters in the United Kingdom. Following Shout! Factory's acquisition of the title in February 2011, all 5 seasons have been released on DVD.

Contents

    1 Premise
    2 Production
    3 Characters
        3.1 Elizabeth "Eliza" Thornberry
        3.2 Darwin Thornberry
        3.3 Donald "Donnie" Michael Thornberry
        3.4 Deborah "Debbie" Thornberry
        3.5 Sir Nigel Archibald Thornberry KBE
        3.6 Marianne Hunter Thornberry
    4 Equipment
    5 Episodes
    6 DVD and digital releases
    7 Films
    8 Parodies
    9 References
    10 External links

Premise

The series focuses around a nomadic family of documentary filmmakers known as the Thornberrys, famous for their televised wildlife studies. It primarily centers on the family's younger daughter Eliza, and her secret gift of being able to communicate with animals,[2] which was bestowed upon her after having rescued a shaman masquerading as a trapped warthog.

The gift enabled her to talk to the Thornberrys' pet chimpanzee Darwin. Together, the pair frequently venture through the wilderness, befriending many species of wild animals along the way or realizing moral truths and lessons through either their experiences or a particular animal species's lifestyle, or simply assisting the creatures, by which they become acquainted, in their difficulties.
Production

The Wild Thornberrys was produced by Klasky Csupo for Nickelodeon. It premiered in September 1998, and was the first Nicktoon to exclusively use 22-minute stories (episodes of other Nicktoons usually featured two 10 – 11-minute stories, using 22-minute stories only on occasion).
Characters
The Wild Thornberrys, left to right, Nigel (bottom left), Marianne (with camera), Eliza (with glasses), Darwin (the chimpanzee), Donnie (with brown hair), and Debbie (sitting down, bored)
Elizabeth "Eliza" Thornberry

Eliza is the younger daughter of the Thornberry family. She is intelligent, true-hearted, fearless, and good-natured, but she can also be very stubborn. Eliza has the power to communicate with wildlife and she often employs this skill when embarking on explorations through the wilderness, traveling around the world with her parents, or encountering different wild creatures.

She is forced to keep her gift secret from her family, having been warned that she will lose her powers if she tells anyone about them. Aided by her intelligent pet chimp, Darwin, she often sets out to assist or meet countless differing animals. Eliza is depicted in a stereotypically-nerdy fashion, with red hair plaited in braids, eyeglasses, braces, and freckles. She is also a scuba diver.

Eliza is voiced by Lacey Chabert.
Darwin Thornberry

Darwin is a chimpanzee who travels with the family and is a loyal companion to Eliza. He usually wears a tank top with horizontal blue and white stripes (used to be Debbie's lucky tank top) and blue shorts. He speaks with a distinct upper-class British accent. He tries to be the voice of reason to Eliza, however she rarely takes his advice. Cautious by nature, he is almost always hesitant to follow her plans; in response, she accuses him of cowardice, once calling him a "crybaby in a tank-top" for his hesitancy. He was found by Eliza, and was the first animal she ever talked to.

In The Wild Thornberrys Movie: The Origin of Donnie, Darwin was seen in a flashback, stealing the sleeveless tank top that was once owned by Debbie. His name is most likely a reference to Charles Darwin, though within the series Eliza gives him the name Darwin after Lenny Darwin, her cousin who looks like a monkey (is never shown in the series).

Darwin is voiced by Tom Kane.
Donald "Donnie" Michael Thornberry

Donnie is a feral boy who (as revealed in the 2001 four-part TV movie, "The Wild Thornberrys: The Origin of Donnie") was raised by orangutans in Borneo. His real parents, Michael and Lisa, were naturalists who loved and protected animals with their hearts. One night, it is revealed, two poachers attacked a pair of orangutans, intending to harm or kill the mother and sell the baby on the black market.

Donnie's parents managed to save them but were killed for interfering, much to the horror of the orangutan mother and the local villagers who came to know about their deaths. Out of gratitude and love, the mother orangutan took Donnie and raised him as a son. One day, however, she came across the Thornberrys and decided to give Donnie to them so he could have a human family. She watched tearfully along with her son as he was welcomed into their family as their own. It is revealed that the Thornberrys knew his parents before they adopted him, as they had met while Donnie's parents were on their honeymoon.

Donnie usually wears a pair of leopard-spotted shorts (similar to Tarzan's leopardskin loincloth) and he loves to eat all types of bugs. He babbles wildly and makes animal-sounds (but nothing Eliza can understand), occasionally spouting bits of English or exhibiting intermittent signs of sophistication. Donnie is 4, turning 5 in "The Origin of Donnie", and it is presumed he does not know what happened to his parents. It is revealed that he was able to pick up sign language from watching his parents teaching it to orangutans. We only see him sign one word (family), and it is unclear how much he knows. Nevertheless, this proves Donnie's intelligence – something which the audience sees further evidence of in a drawing he does of his parents alongside the orangutan family that raised him.

Donnie is voiced by Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
Deborah "Debbie" Thornberry

Debbie is the eldest child of the Thornberrys, depicted as a typical teenage girl. Captivated with fashion and music, Debbie is portrayed as considerably more self-absorbed than her sister Eliza and tends to whine and complain, particularly over her family's nomadic way of life and her desire to lead an average life. She is often annoyed that Eliza embraces the family's lifestyle, and Eliza is mutually annoyed by Debbie's apathy. However, Debbie cares for her sister deep down, most notably in the movie in which she becomes the only family member to know about Eliza's powers but is later warned that she will be turned into a baboon if she ever tells anyone. Debbie dresses in grunge clothing and sports a distinctive peekaboo hairstyle.

Debbie is voiced by Danielle Harris.
Sir Nigel Archibald Thornberry KBE

Nigel is the child of Radcliffe and Cordelia Thornberry (Lynn Redgrave), an aristocratic British couple. Born in Britain himself and attended Harrow School in London, he travels around the world with his own family making wildlife documentaries. He may be inspired by Sir David Attenborough and speaks with a nasally RP English accent. He is eccentric, enthusiastic and cheerful, even in the face of danger.

He was offered a professorship at Oxford University but, much to his mother's disapproval, Nigel turned it down. He is an expert zoologist, as well as naturalist, traveler and survivalist and is quite caring and logical though Nigel often otherwise appears absent minded or naive. In the series, Nigel is a supporting character, but in the film Rugrats Go Wild, Nigel plays a much larger role as he is idolized by Tommy Pickles (who usually refers to him as "Mr. Strawberry"). Nigel gets amnesia and thinks he's a baby after a coconut hit his head. Later in a bathysphere, Nigel whacks his head, which causes his memory to come back.

Nigel is voiced by Tim Curry.
Marianne Hunter Thornberry

Marianne is Nigel's wife, daughter of Frank (Ed Asner) and Sophie Hunter (Betty White). She operates the film camera and edits their nature show. Marianne is a strong woman, often the voice of reason, and sometimes loses patience with Nigel. She is usually the one to take on disciplinary duties, trying to keep the girls out of trouble and finish their homework. In Season 1, Episode 12, she mentions that she attended the University of California, Berkeley. Marianne is also a scuba diver like Eliza. She wears a wetsuit, flippers, mask, and scuba tank in Season 3, Episode 17. Marianne is voiced by Jodi Carlisle.
Equipment

The Commvee (an abbreviation of "communications vehicle") is a two-story mobile home; the main door leads up a flight of stairs to a main floor with the driver and passenger seat in the front, followed by a twin sized bed, table for eating at on the west side of the car, a kitchen on the eastern side, and a bathroom in the back which also serves as a dark-room for editing film.

There is a "basement/1st floor" that contains one room with a big bed for Nigel and Marianne, a room with two small beds (for Debbie and Eliza) and two hammocks for Donnie and Darwin. There is also a small box near the floor of the "main story" that contains various switches which can inflate a raft for crossing rivers and the ocean to a "lock-down" mode in which iron plates cover the windows (as seen in Thornberry Island) for typhoons; there are other switches that can put the car into a submarine mode, or inflate a bag on top of the car for falling objects or rising to the surface of the ocean.

Near the 'switch box' there is a hatch (as seen in Rugrats Go Wild) that gives access to a mini-sub. There is also a roof with a satellite that barely ever gets reception, but is used to upload footage to the foundation. On the outside there are many compartments, supposedly for carrying equipment, holiday decorations, and other smaller vehicles such as the 'mini-comm' for short-range transport or picking up passengers and returning them to camp or the submarine for deep sea expedition (the bath-o-sphere).

The Commvee also features the usual conveniences found in a motorhome, including air-conditioning, a kitchen, and a powerful stereo system with a cassette tape player.
Episodes
Main article: List of The Wild Thornberrys episodes
DVD and digital releases

Nickelodeon released all five seasons on DVD in Region 1 via Amazon.com through its CreateSpace Manufacture-on-demand program in 2010. Season 1 was released on June 24, 2010,[3] Seasons 2 through 5 were released on December 1, 2010[4] All of these releases are now discontinued.

On February 16, 2011, it was announced that Shout! Factory had acquired the rights to the series and would be releasing season 1 on DVD on May 17, 2011.[5] Season 1 was released on May 17, 2011 followed by Season 2, Part 1 on November 8, 2011.[6] Season 2, Part 2 was released on April 24, 2012.[7] Season 2, Part 3 was released on January 15, 2013, as a Shout Select title.[8] Season 3 was released on June 11, 2013 as a Shout Select title.[9] Seasons 4 and 5 were released in a box set on September 10, 2013 as a Shout Select title.[10]

On December 1, 2015, Shout! Factory will release The Wild Thornberrys: The Complete Series on DVD in Region 1.[11]

In Australia, all 5 seasons have been released via Beyond Home Entertainment. A 13-disc set titled The Wild Thornberrys: The Essential Episodes was released on June 3, 2015.
DVD Name 	Episodes 	Release Date
Region 1
	
Region 4
Season 1 	20 	May 17, 2011 	April 3, 2013
Season 2, Part 1
Season 2, Part 2
Season 2, Part 3? 	13
8
16 	November 8, 2011
April 24, 2012
January 15, 2013 	April 3, 2013 (complete)
Season 3? 	20 	June 11, 2013 	December 4, 2013
Seasons 4 & 5? 	14 	September 10, 2013 	April 2, 2014
The Essential Episodes 	75 	N/A 	June 3, 2015
The Complete Series 	91 	December 1, 2015 	N/A

? – Shout! Factory select title, sold exclusively through Shout's online store. (refers to region 1 releases)
Films

Three movies have been released:

    The Wild Thornberrys: The Origin of Donnie (2001): This prequel was released as a TV film and explores Donnie's life before he was found by the Thornberrys.
    The Wild Thornberrys Movie (2002): This theatrical film made $60 million and earned an Academy Award nomination.[12]
    Rugrats Go Wild (2003): This theatrical film was the final Rugrats film and a cross-over between Rugrats and The Wild Thornberrys.[13]

Parodies

    The Wild Thornberrys were parodied on the Robot Chicken Season 8 episode Zeb and Kevin Erotic Hot Tub Canvas. Lacey Chabert, Danielle Harris and Jodi Carlisle reprise their roles in the episode.
